The RSI technical indicator doesn't work
on a 14 period setting. If you use the
overbought and oversold zones, that
doesn't work either. How can you really
take advantage of this technical
indicator the right way? Stay tuned
until the end of this video because I'm
going to reveal the RSI settings that
actually work. I'm also going to share
my two best trading strategies that use
only the RSI and price action. So, how
do we interpret the RSI? As you can see,
there are several zones on the RSI,
starting with the green oversold zone.
That simply means the market has been
heavily sold. We'll see more about that
later. It doesn't mean you should buy.
On the other hand, there's the
overbought zone shown in red. And as you
might guess, that means prices have gone
up a lot. And it's something you should
take into account in your trading
strategy. The most important zone is the
50% area marked in yellow. Overall, when
the market is bullish, the RSI will be
above the 50% zone. Once the market
turns around and changes trend right
here, you can see on the RSI that the
market will drop below the 50% zone and
stay below it as long as the market
remains bearish. The biggest mistake
beginner traders make is thinking that
just because the market is approaching
or entering the oversold zone. It's a
buy signal. This is completely false.
Sure, the market is bearish. Sure, the
market has dropped a lot. That doesn't
mean it's going to go back up just
because the RSI is in the 30% zone. Look
at what happens next. You got a tiny
bounce, but overall the market stays
very bearish. Here you lose money if you
buy. Second example here. As you can
see, the market has entered the oversold
zone. Is that a buy signal? I don't
think so. And look at what happens next.
The market just hesitates a bit and then
continues its downward trend. So here,
by using the strategy of buying when the
market enters the 30% RSI zone, you lose
twice in a row. Of course, sometimes it
will work. I'm not saying otherwise. But
now I'm going to show you the best way
to use the RSI to get a much higher
success rate. But first, let me share
with you the settings I personally use.
As you can see, the RSI isn't set to
seven periods. It's not set to 14
periods. It's set to 21 periods. Because
with 21 periods, the RSI gives far fewer
false signals than with 14 periods. I've
been able to observe this over the years
I've spent in the financial markets.
Now, I'm going to share with you a very
effective first strategy using only the
RSI and price action. As you can see on
the left, the market is bullish. What
we're going to try to spot are
divergences between what the chart is
telling us and what the RSI is telling
us. You can see here that the market is
reaching a top. The highs of these
candlesticks are slightly bullish or
even flat. But on the RSI, as you can
see at the bottom, the market is going
down. The highs are getting lower and
lower. So, we have an indicator showing
us a price that's going down and a
candlestick chart showing us a price
that's slightly rising or flat. This is
what we call a divergence. And as
traders, we can take advantage of this
divergence. For example, here what you
should have done is once you've spotted
this bearish divergence, wait for the
market to give you confirmation signals
of this divergence. The confirmation
signals are very simple. We're going to
look at price action and the breakouts
of price zones. You can see that in
addition to having a chart pattern
indicating a trend reversal, we also
have the price re-entering this price
zone. There was a resistance then a
support after the breakout here. And you
can see here the price breaks down below
the support. So it becomes a resistance
again. We have a re-entry of the price.
You can also see that on top of that we
have a break below the 50% zone on the
RSI. And if you listen to what I said at
the beginning of the video, you know
that when the market breaks below the 50
zone on the RSI, it means it's going to
turn bearish at least for a while. So
you have a trade entry here and for the
target you're aiming for the previous
price zone. The target is never set
randomly. You can see that the previous
price zone of the market, the order
block is right here. This was the
starting point of the bullish move here.
And we consider that if the market
re-enters this price zone, it's to
revisit the previous prices of the order
block. So, you have a trade with an
excellent riskreward ratio. You can set
your stop-loss slightly above the zone
and with just a little patience, the
market will hit your target. The second
strategy is a trend following and
momentum strategy. We're looking at the
Euro Dollar and we're going to focus on
this very interesting market face. You
can see here a huge bullish candle that
gives a direct buy signal. But as a
responsible and professional trader, you
don't buy at the close of this 15-minute
candle. You wait for a better entry
price. Why not wait for a retest of the
price zone like what's about to happen
here? You can see that the market comes
back and bounces precisely on the former
resistance, which now becomes a support.
Here the market confirms that the
uptrend is taking shape and that this
price zone is now a support. The trade
here is very straightforward to take
with this bullish confirmation candle on
the support. And on the RSI, what will
also reinforce our bullish scenario is
that as you can see the market will
correct and bounce almost exactly at the
50% zone of the RSI. So you have the
market showing you through price action
that an upward move is now to be
expected and you have the RSI confirming
this. So you have a convergence of
trading signals. The more signals you
accumulate in the direction of your
scenario, the more confident you can be
in your buy. We can also have some fun
by placing a Fibonacci from the start of
the move up to the top of the first
volatile movement here. And you can see
that the market is going to bounce right
on the 61.8%
Fibonacci retracement. That's a huge
support level. So, you have a lot of
signals pointing in the same direction.
You can take this by with peace of mind.
Here, you enter at the close of the
15-minute confirmation candle. You set
the stop loss just below the
confirmation candle in the price zone,
which helps protect against a false
bullish breakout. It's recommended to
have at least a 2:1 riskreward ratio.
So, if you're risking $50 on your
stop-loss, it's to make at least $100 on
your first target. Then with a bit of
patience, you see the market will keep
going up. When this high is broken here,
you have a new buying point. You can see
how powerful it is to use bounces off
the 50% zone. You can see how powerful
it is to use bounces. It really gives
you very precise entry points, really
nice confirmations for a trader. Thank
you all for your attention and I'll see
you next time.